(upbeat whistling tune)
Next up we're gonna talk about
one called align-content, now two videos ago we
looked at one called justify-content,
and what align-content and justify-content essentially do
is they say "Well, I got this extra space
"which is the white space here, what do I do with it,
"how do I divvy it up, who gets it, where does it go"
and it answers all those questions
so we talked about justify-content and we said something
like space-between and give it a refresh and what happened
there is it took that extra space which is on the right-hand
side and it divvied it up in between, so essentially you can
think of what happens to the extra space
on the main axis left to right, this is the main axis.
We've got another one, which is called align-content
and it also takes the same parameters that justify-content,
flex-start, flex-end, space-between et cetera et cetera.
So, if we said that's a space-between and refresh,
hmm it doesn't really do anything for us,
so like what does that property even do
if it doesn't actually make anything work,
and if we think about justify-content taking the extra space
on the main axis left to right,
align-content takes the extra space on the cross axis
top to bottom, and splits it up.
So, what's our problem here, well we don't have any
extra space on our vertical axis because by default
the items are just going to stretch across.
So align-content actually only works when we have
multiple lines of code and what it's going to do
is if we open this on up, it's gonna figure out
what do I do with the extra space
on the cross axis and the vertical one.
Do we put it at the, some at the top, some at the bottom,
do we put it in between each one individually,
do we put them at the top or the bottom,
so the first thing we need to do before we even get rolling
with this align-content, just gonna comment that out,
is actually get some wrapping, so how did we do that
last time in one of the first videos,
we took the box and we gave it a width of 33.33%,
something like that, refresh, hmmm
33%, that's not 33%, that's just, it figured it out,
it just divvied it up individually, so how did we fix that,
well on our flex container we did something called
flex-wrap-wrap, and what that will do is it will actually
give a true width to our flex items
and it will allow us to wrap it around.
So, align-content by default, just like justify-content,
the default is something called align-content-stretch,
so you can see that right now,
the items are just stretching, it's figuring out that
we need four rows and we've got all the space of my browser
vertically here, so just divvy it up, stretch them across,
give each of them kind of like a 25% height,
so that's the default which is something called stretch.
Now I could show you real quick,
I make that stretch, refresh, nothing happens.
So, let's look at the other ones that are
available to us, we've got flex-start
and all that's gonna do is now
the height of them is no longer stretch,
the height of them is how high are they,
they're just taking however much height
they could possibly need which is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, right?
And one kind of a size is, doesn't really have to do with it
but it's kinda interesting, if I took this 2,
and added a BR and I just did like a happy face,
you'll see that 2 needs extra room here so everything
that is on the same line as 2 is going to stretch
to be the same height which is super handy,
lot of times you get these javascript hacks to make sure
that your columns right here are the same size
as the others, let's just bring that back to where we were.
Now, we've got all of this extra room right here,
so right here, we're only worried about the cross axis
which is top to bottom, we got all this extra room
right here, what do we do with it?
We could do flex-end, put the extra room
at the top because you start the items
at the bottom, we could do space-between
which will put them in between each row,
what else, we have space-around
and that will put it on the top
and in between each one, we talked about this
in the other, and then finally
we also have center which, again, if you are doing
a row-based layout and you want to vertically center items,
this is exactly what you want, you want to be able to say
this is how big my container is, and I want you to just
center them vertically inside of that.
One other thing we want to maybe do here,
is this little straggler here 10, what if we want to align
that in the center, now you might think like "Oh, I'll use
"text-align-center on the wrapper, and maybe that will work"
So, text-align-center, put that on there, refresh,
it doesn't actually get the 10 to go in the middle,
so one thing we can do is, well, think back
to two videos ago, we can also use justify-content,
and again, justify-content is the main axis left to right,
and align-content is the cross axis top to bottom,
we can also just set justify-content to center
and then we got it perfectly centered,
it's centered both horizontally as well as vertically.
So, that's align-content, again make sure that you remember
the two important things, that you first need some sort of
wrap otherwise it doesn't take effect.
And then the other thing is that we are only concerned
with the cross axis, which by default is top to bottom
unless we use flex direction to change that.
Alright, well see you in the next ones.
We're going to be taking a look
at the next one which is align-self.
So, so far we've been doing these container ones
where all of them just follow, but what happens if we want
just one of them to sort of override the default,
so we're gonna be going from our flex container
into our flex item, and applying some styles there.
See you then!
(upbeat whistling tune)